\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename geiser-guile.info
@settitle Geiser and Guile talk to each other
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Geiser Guile: (geiser-guile). Support for Guile in Geiser.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title Geiser and Guile talk to each other
@author jao
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Geiser and Guile talk to each other
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Start up::
* Debugging support::
* Tramp support::
@end menu

@node Overview
@unnumbered Overview

This package provides support for using @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/guile/, GNU Guile} in Emacs with
@uref{http://geiser.nongnu.org, Geiser}.

Provided @uref{https://gitlab.com/emacs-geiser/geiser, geiser} is installed in your system, if this package's
directory is in your load path, just add @code{(require 'geiser-guile)} to
your initialisation files and then @code{M-x run-guile} to start a REPL@.
Scheme files with a Guile module declaration should be automatically
recognised as Guile-flavoured Geiser buffers.

The easiest way of installing this package is using NonGNU Elpa or
MELPA@.  If you're in Emacs 28 or higher, the former is already enabled
and all you need is the familiar

@lisp
M-x install-package RET geiser-guile RET
@end lisp

That will also install geiser, and its fine info manual.  Please refer
to it (or its @uref{https://geiser.nongnu.org, online version}) for a general description of how geiser
schemes work.  We provide below some additional details specific to
geiser-guile.

@node Start up
@unnumbered Start up

When launching the Guile REPL, geiser will invoke the binary
configured in @code{geiser-guile-binary} (simply "guile" by default)
which in turn will load @code{geiser-guile-init-file}, if any.

Note, however, that specifying @code{geiser-guile-init-file} is @emph{not}
equivalent to changing Guile's initialization file (@samp{~/.guile}),
because the former is loaded using the @samp{-l} flag, together with @samp{-q}
to disable loading the second.  But there are subtle differences
in the way Guile loads the initialization file versus how it loads
a file specified via the @samp{-l} flag.  If what you want is just
loading @samp{~/.guile}, leave @code{geiser-guile-init-file} alone and set
@code{geiser-guile-load-init-file-p} to @code{t} instead.

One can also provide a global list of paths to add to Guile's
@samp{%load-path} via @code{geiser-guile-load-path}.

@node Debugging support
@unnumbered Debugging support

Guile supports all the debugger commands supported by Geiser (it's
in fact used as the reference for the implementation and design of
that support).  When the REPL would normally enter its debug mode,
with a prompt of the style:

scheme@@(guile-user) [1]>

showing a debugging level, Geiser will instead bring you to the
@samp{*Geiser Dbg*} buffer, where you can access a menu of debugging
commands via the @code{,} (comma) key.

The geiser-guile customization group will show you, among many
other, a few flags fine-tuning interaction with the debugger, as
well as things like the detail level of error messages (e.g. via
@code{geiser-guile-warning-level}).

@node Tramp support
@unnumbered Tramp support

Geiser guile can be used remotely via tramp connections: the REPL
process will be run in the machine where the tramp-accessed file
lives.  Implemented by Felipe Lema.

@bye